h1. Just Another Tooltip (Jatt)

h2. Features

* Dynamic tooltip modifications can be done using metadata (see the demo-metadata.htm file).
* Choose the tooltip direction (8 directions: n, ne, e, se, s, sw, w & nw).
* Tooltip content obtained from selected object attribute, a different object on the same page, or via ajax.
* Ajax calls can include jquery selectors to target specific page content.
* Screenshots of webpages can be obtained through Websnapr.com or from your own image.


h2. Usage & Options (defaults)

Script:
<pre>$.jatt({
 // options that can be modified by metadata
 direction   : 'n',     // direction of tooltip
 followMouse : true,    // tooltip follows mouse movement
 content     : 'title', // attribute containing tooltip text
 speed       : 300,     // tooltip fadein speed
 local       : false,   // if true, the script attachs the tooltip locally; if false, the tooltip is added to the body
 xOffset     : 20,      // x distance from mouse (no negative values)
 yOffset     : 20,      // y distance from mouse (no negative values)
 zIndex      : 1000,    // z-index of tooltip
 // options not supported by metadata
 live        : false,                 // use live event support?
 metadata    : 'class',               // attribute that contains the metadata, use "false" (no quotes) to disable the metadata.
 activate    : 'mouseenter focusin',  // how tooltip is activated
 deactivate  : 'mouseleave focusout', // how tooltip is deactivated
 // change tooltip, screenshot and preview
 tooltip     : 'tooltip',             // class & id used for tooltip
 screenshot  : 'screenshot',          // class & id used for screenshot and preview
 preview     : 'preview'              // class used for preview
});</pre>

HTML examples (see more in the provided demo pages):
<pre>&lt;a class="tooltip {direction:n; width:100px;}" href="http://www.url.com" title="Tooltip Content"&gt;Displayed text&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;a class="preview {direction:e; text-align:center;}" href="google2.jpg" title="Google's Logo"&gt;&lt;img src="google1.jpg" /&gt;&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;a class="screenshot {direction:e;}" href="http://www.google.com/" rel="#" title="&lt;center&gt;Google&lt;/center&gt;"&gt;Google&lt;/a&gt;</pre>

h2. Changelog

h3. Version 2.1 (8/25/2010)

* Convert script into a plugin.
* Added many enhancements:
** Metadata - can modify tooltip css and script options.
** Positioning - tooltips will display in a specific direction.
** Contents - can be obtained from external pages (domains if you use James Padolsey's included script).
* Removed dhtmltooltip support, but the commented code was left in, in case someone still needs it.

h3. Version 2.0.1 (8/29/2009)

* Added Websnapr.com support to the screenshot script.

h3. Version 2.0 (6/10/2009)

* Combined the three original scripts by Alen Grakalic.
* Added support for dhtmltooltip.

h3. Version 1.0 (5/8/2008)

* Original tooltip script by Alen Grakalic.